---
layout: page
title: About
---
With a population of less than 2,000, the town of El Algar in Cadiz, Andalucía may seem inconsequential at first glance. However, its history and its patronage tell a story that reverberates around the Spanish world. Originally founded as Santa María de Guadalupe by Domingo López de Carvajal in 1773, the town illuminates connections between the Old and New Worlds that challenge our understanding of colonization. When López de Carvajal founded the town and church of Santa María de Guadalupe, he named it after the distinctly Mexican icon of the Virgin of Guadalupe rather than the Spanish Guadalupe in Extremadura. With this action, López de Carvajal imported a uniquely New World devotion, countering the narrative of Spain as originator and colonial Mexico as imitator. The Spanish town of Algar, then Santa María de Guadalupe, became imitator, like countless other towns in Spain. This web map seeks to uncover hidden connections between the Mexican Virgins of Guadalupe and los Remedios and their Spanish counterparts in order to gain a deeper understanding of the flow of ideas in the Spanish colonial world.

Explore. Trace new connections. Discover.

The Atlantic Current combines an under researched area of art historical and religious studies with digital tools to create a source that draws new and unique connections. Without the art historical background or the digital tools, this project would not be possible. The Atlantic Current has allowed me to draw new conclusions about specific Marian devotion in the Spanish world. Because this work exists on a web map, visitors of all knowledge levels can explore the stories of these image, deepening their understanding of regional devotion and drawing their own conclusions. This work pushes against a traditional understanding of colonialism and seeks to bring to light the often-invisible contributions of New World cultures in Spain. While isolated studies surrounding the Mexican Virgin of Guadalupe in Spain exist, the rarely exist in English. My website opens up this area of scholarship to English speakers. Thanks to its place on the web and the development of tools like google-translate, my conclusions actually become available to more than just English-speakers.

I created the Atlantic Current in winter of 2019 to map locations of patronage to the Virgin of Guadalupe and the Virgin of los Remedios in Mexico and Spain in conjunction with my Art History honors thesis.

This project relies on the work of José A. Martínez Puche, O.P. and Rafael del Olmo Veros, O.A.R. in María, Madre de la Hispanidad, and the guidance of Mackenzie Brooks, Andrea Lepage, and Sydney Bufkin. Please see [Acknowledgements]( http://katherinedau.com/atlanticcurrent/#/credits/) for more information on my sources.
